For 1.0
Music is only 2 min long. It needs to be twice that.
Replace sfx
Replace C I/O, especially sprintf
Use CL_DisplayCard::get_videomodes() to check before opening a window

I saw a segfault, several minutes into the game while flamethrowing an eyeball
	Happened twice now, both times on the dalek level. After a couple of long games?
	Happened a third time, long into a game in a level with cellphones when I was kiling an eyeball (normally)
	Happened another two times, on the laser level. GDB crashes too. :-(
	Fourth time happened when I threw a bomb onto an eyeball with sound turned on
	Got a crash on exit while playing with sound with verbosity
	How do I narrow this down?
		Turn off sound and see if it still happens
		Make a grunts-only fruitless res.scr and see if it happens

Once Windows crashed when it'd been running mojotron fullscreen and paused for several minutes.
When fullscreen is turned on in Windows, you need to press return once before it listens to input
Turning on fullscreen on my parent's computer makes it vanish

Once I mined a monster and it left a stationary pod on the start position. Ran out of lives.
Can't read KP enter as a use key from menus!

When ClanLib gets them fixed:
Get END working
Font deletion is broken
Occasional massive time deltas in windows (not fixed, hardware bug/get_time() interaction)

Minor things:
Record another demo
screen corruption after game, on title screen
Levload test is broken
Snails don't face right way
That starry bg corruption is a bit alarming.



Future ideas:

PERFORMANCE STUFF
Could pack 32 bits into ints for use as a bitmask, instead of chars. What about bools?
Playerstats scrolltext shouldn't redraw the text every frame.

FEATURES
Different player classes
Bonus levels
Fortress enemies like in Xkobo
Use joystick (gamepad) buttons as axes

USABILITY
Intro is too cluttered
Levskip notice should count up lives indicator at bottom etc.
Mushrooms don't look deadly
need a sparkly anim for when invincibles get shot
key number -> ascii mapping is kinda broken
Attention needs to be directed to the powerups list when one is taken

BUGS
Timing stats are wrong at high difficulties
Abovecursors aren't displayed properly in intro
Keypad keys give none of the above when I try to read them
Very minor memory leak in SFX init
Instacrate twice on the same spot was always broken

GAMEPLAY
People hate pixel perfect collision detection on the player sprite
Fruit multiplier in difficulty levels

INELEGANCES
Make an enemy class to reduce redundancy amongst the nasties
My sprite system doesn't need that big enum
How grunt sprites are handled right now is quite nasty
Break game state into two variables, one for the screen display in miscdisplay
Duplication of event dispatch methods in World
Recode centipede AI with Thing's methods
Fewer headers should #include Globals, getting conflicts
Explosion type should be based on the enemy graphic used
The menu code needs refactored

World class is way too big, it contains:
Game State (.5) \__ easy split
Misc input (.5) /

Run (3)
Load (3)
Class maint (1)
Accessors (0.4)
tot (11)

Rightangler AI would be cleaner with attackdim etc. being references

Could merge a lot of bonus classes through parameterisation of which bool to switch on. 
Parameter would be subset of bonus enum.

GRAPHICAL
fix frogs
fix rabbits
player sprite animation really needs work
Multiple player sprites
